EIP-4834 - Hierarchical Domains Standard (#4835)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-4834.md

---
eip: 4834
title: Hierarchical Domains Standard
description: The Hierarchal Domains Standard is a standard for extremely generic name resolution.
author: Pandapip1 (@Pandapip1)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-4834-hierarchical-domains-standard/8388
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-02-22
requires: 165
---

## Abstract

> The Hierarchical Domains Standard is a standard for extremely generic name resolution. conversely it makes it simple to extend - any smart contract that implements the ERC-4834 interface could be set as a subdomain. This differs from ERC-137 because it does not provide a separate "resolver" contract - any behavior should be part of the ERC-4834 contract itself.

Author: Typo

---
eip: 4834
title: Hierarchical Domains Standard
description: The Hierarchal Domains Standard is a standard for extremely generic name resolution.
author: Pandapip1 (@Pandapip1)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-4834-hierarchical-domains-standard/8388
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-02-22
requires: 165
---

## Abstract

> `ERC-4834` is a standard for generic name resolution with access control. It permits contracts that implement `ERC-4834` ("domains") to be addressable with a more human-friendly name, similar to `ERC-137`.

Reviewer: Oh, sorry, I forgot to mention that you have to link to an EIP the first time you mention it.

Author: Done

This ERC also implements flexible access control. This allows for clever implementations, such as having a token that can be redeemed for subdomains of the token, and domains that are themselves NFTs that grant the ability to manage the domain to the owner of said NFT. There can also be multiple managers of a single domain with different access, instead of a single owner. Of course, it's still possible to implement a single-owner domain, should that be desired.

In addition, TLDs (like .com), subdomains, and even the "root" itself (analogous to the ENS registry) are all implemented as ERC-4834 smart contracts, meaning that name-resolution is a relatively simple iterative algorithm, and there is no limit to the amount of nesting that is possible (e.g. 0.1.2.3.4.5.6.7.8.9.a.b.c.d.e.f.g.h.i.j.k.l.m.n.o.p.q.r.s.t.u.v.w.x.y.z could be valid if the root contains z, and z contains y, and etc).

## Rationale

> As previously mentioned in the abstract and motivation, the design of this ERC is different than that of ERC-137. ERC-137 has a strong tiering - the registrars update the ENS registry, which points to resolvers. In ERC-4834, every domain is effectively a registry, resolver, and registrar all in one. This is specifically designed to be a simple addressing system.

Reviewer: `Rationale` has to go after `Specification`.

Also, the `Rationale` section should describe the reasons behind particular choices in the specification (a dumb example would be to explain why `canDeleteDomain` and `canDeleteSubdomain` both exist.) Compare that to the `Motivation` section, which describes why this EIP as a whole should exist.

}
```

### Name Resolution
To resolve a name (like `"a.b.c"`), you first split it by the delimiter (resulting in something like `["a", "b", "c"]`). Set `domain` initially to the root domain.

Pop off the last element of the array (`"c"`), then call `domain.hasDomain(lastElement)`. If it's `false`, then the domain resolution fails. Otherwise, set the domain to `domain.getDomain(lastElement)`. Repeat until the list of split segments is empty.

Here is a solidity function that resolves a name:

```sol
function resolve(string[] calldata splitName, IDomain root) public view returns (address) {
    IDomain current = root;
    for (uint i = splitName.length - 1; i >= 0; i--) {
        // Require that the current domain has a domain
        require(current.hasDomain(splitName[i]));
        // Resolve subdomain
        current = current.getDomain(splitName[i]);
    }
    return current;
}
```

<!--### Supported Interfaces
| Interface Name 	| ERC-165 Hash 	| Reference                                       	|
|----------------	|--------------	|-------------------------------------------------	|-->

> 

Reviewer: Should probably remove this before merging.

Author: I have it commented out -- is that good enough?

In addition, TLDs (like .com), subdomains, and even the "root" itself (analogous to the ENS registry) are all implemented as ERC-4834 smart contracts, meaning that name-resolution is a relatively simple iterative algorithm, and there is no limit to the amount of nesting that is possible (e.g. 0.1.2.3.4.5.6.7.8.9.a.b.c.d.e.f.g.h.i.j.k.l.m.n.o.p.q.r.s.t.u.v.w.x.y.z could be valid if the root contains z, and z contains y, and etc).

## Specification
The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

### Contract Interface
Solidity Interface with NatSpec & OpenZeppelin v4 Interfaces (also available at [IDomain.sol](../assets/eip-4834/IDomain.sol)):

```sol
interface IDomain is IERC165 {
    //// Events
    

>     /// @notice     Must be emitted when createDomain is called

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    /// @notice     Must be emitted when a new subdomain is created (eg. through `createDomain`.)
```

I worry that the original wording is too specific, and would let implementations weasel out of emitting the events.

    /// @param      sender msg.sender for createDomain
    /// @param      name name for createDomain
    /// @param      subdomain subdomain in createDomain
    event SubdomainCreate(address indexed sender, string name, address subdomain);

>     /// @notice     Must be emitted when setDomain is called

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    /// @notice     Must be emitted when the resolved address for a domain is changed (eg. with `setDomain`)
```

    /// @param      sender msg.sender for setDomain
    /// @param      name name for setDomain
    /// @param      subdomain subdomain in setDomain
    /// @param      oldSubdomain the old subdomain
    event SubdomainUpdate(address indexed sender, string name, address subdomain, address oldSubdomain);

>     /// @notice     Must be emitted when deleteDomain is called

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    /// @notice     Must be emitted when a domain is unmapped (eg. with `deleteDomain`)
```

    ///             `getDomain(name).canMoveSubdomain(msg.sender, this, subdomain)` is `false`.
    /// @param      updater The account that may or may not be able to create/update a subdomain
    /// @param      name The subdomain name that would be created/updated
    /// @param      subdomain The subdomain that would be set
    /// @return     Whether an account can update or create the subdomain
    function canSetDomain(address updater, string memory name, address subdomain) external view returns (bool);

    /// @notice     Get if an account can delete the subdomain with a given name
    /// @dev        This must return `false` if `hasDomain(name)` is `false`.
    ///             If `getDomain(name)` is a domain, this should return `false` if
    ///             `getDomain(name).canDeleteSubdomain(msg.sender, this, subdomain)` is `false`.
    /// @param      updater The account that may or may not be able to delete a subdomain
    /// @param      name The subdomain to delete
    /// @return     Whether an account can delete the subdomain
    function canDeleteDomain(address updater, string memory name) external view returns (bool);

    //// Subdomain Access Control

>     /// @notice     Get if an account can point this domain as a subdomain

Reviewer: I'm not sure what this means. Would you mind expanding it a little bit?

Author: I've rephrased it: `Get if an account can set this domain as a subdomain`

    /// @dev        May be called by `canSetDomain` of the parent domain - implement access control here!!!
    /// @param      updater The account that may be moving the subdomain
    /// @param      name The subdomain name
    /// @param      parent The parent domain
    /// @return     Whether an account can update the subdomain
    function canPointSubdomain(address updater, string memory name, IDomain parent) external view returns (bool);

    /// @notice     Get if an account can move the subdomain away from the current domain
    /// @dev        May be called by `canSetDomain` of the parent domain - implement access control here!!!
    /// @param      updater The account that may be moving the subdomain
    /// @param      name The subdomain name
    /// @param      parent The parent domain
    /// @param      newSubdomain The domain that will be set next
    /// @return     Whether an account can update the subdomain
    function canMoveSubdomain(address updater, string memory name, IDomain parent, address newSubdomain) external view returns (bool);

>     /// @notice     Get if an account can point this domain as a subdomain

Author: Yup, I must have missed that.

    /// @dev        May be called by `canDeleteDomain` of the parent domain - implement access control here!!!
    /// @param      updater The account that may or may not be able to delete a subdomain
    /// @param      name The subdomain to delete
    /// @param      parent The parent domain
    /// @return     Whether an account can delete the subdomain
    function canDeleteSubdomain(address updater, string memory name, IDomain parent) external view returns (bool);
}
```

### Name Resolution
To resolve a name (like `"a.b.c"`), you first split it by the delimiter (resulting in something like `["a", "b", "c"]`). Set `domain` initially to the root domain.

Pop off the last element of the array (`"c"`), then call `domain.hasDomain(lastElement)`. If it's `false`, then the domain resolution fails. Otherwise, set the domain to `domain.getDomain(lastElement)`. Repeat until there are no more lists.

Here is a solidity function that resolves a name:

```sol
function resolve(string[] calldata splitName, IDomain root) public view returns (address) {
    IDomain current = root;
    for (uint i = splitName.length - 1; i >= 0; i--) {
        // Ensure that domain is actually a domain

>         require(current.supportsInterface(type(IDomain).interfaceId));

Reviewer: I think it's important to mention this check (`supportsInterface`) as part of the algorithm described above.

Author: The check was just because I wasn't sure what would happen. I'll remove it since I'm pretty sure it won't break.

        // Require that the current domain has a domain
        require(current.hasDomain(splitName[i]));
        // Resolve subdomain
        current = current.getDomain(splitName[i]);
    }
    return current;
}
```

### Supported Interfaces
| Interface Name 	| ERC-165 Hash 	| Reference                                       	|

> |----------------	|--------------	|-------------------------------------------------	|

Author: No - see EIP137

> 

Author: Huh, I thought I added one.

> 

Author: Oh, I accidentally forgot to re-paste it in last commit.

## Backwards Compatibility
There is no compatibility with ERC-137. While the two ERCs are somewhat similar, the rationale for each is different. It is also likely impossible to create an ERC-4834 domain that wraps ERC-137, because ERC-137 domains are indexed by the hash of the entire domain, while ERC-4834 domains are indexed by the subdomain name.

## Reference Implementations

> Some of these implementations use some contracts from OpenZeppelin (included in the contracts directory) for ease of implementation and understandability. 

Reviewer: > OpenZeppelin (included in the contracts directory)

where are these included?

Author: I forgot to remove that, thanks!

---
eip: 4834
title: Hierarchical Domain Standard

> description: The Hierarchal Domain Standard is a standard for extremely generic name resolution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: A standard for extremely generic name resolution.
```

author: Pandapip1 (@Pandapip1)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-4834-hierarchical-domains-standard/8388
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-02-22
requires: 20, 137, 165, 1155
---

## Abstract

> This EIP, `EIP-4834` is a standard for generic name resolution with access control. It permits a contract that implements `EIP-4834` (referred to as a "domain" hereafter) to be addressable with a more human-friendly name, with a similar purpose to [`EIP-137`](./eip-137) (referred to as "ENS" hereafter).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is a standard for generic name resolution with access control. It permits a contract that implements `EIP-4834` (referred to as a "domain" hereafter) to be addressable with a more human-friendly name, with a similar purpose to [`EIP-137`](./eip-137) (referred to as "ENS" hereafter).
```

## Motivation
The motivation behind this ERC is that existing standards like ERC-137 are relatively complex and have limitations. The advantage of ERC-4834 is that it provides a minimal interface that supports name resolution. This permits use-cases such as referencing an ERC-20 or ERC-1155 token by a name directly, without using a "resolver."

This ERC also implements flexible access control. This allows for clever implementations, such as having a token that can be redeemed for subdomains of the token, and domains that are themselves NFTs that grant the ability to manage the domain to the owner of said NFT. There can also be multiple managers of a single domain with different access, instead of a single "owner."

In addition, TLDs (like .com), subdomains, and even the "root" itself (analogous to the ENS registry) are all implemented as ERC-4834 smart contracts, meaning that name-resolution is a relatively simple recursive algorithm, and there is no limit to the amount of nesting that is possible (e.g. 0.1.2.3.4.5.6.7.8.9.a.b.c.d.e.f.g.h.i.j.k.l.m.n.o.p.q.r.s.t.u.v.w.x.y.z could be valid if the root contains z, and z contains y, and etc).

## Specification

> Solidity Interface (with descriptions): [eip-4834/IDomain.sol]

Reviewer 3: The specification should be inline.  You should be able to do the following in order to get syntax highlighting.
````
```sol
<specification here>
```
````

Author: Inlined it

Author: I'm going to unresolve this so I remember to put the inline interface back.

## Rationale
As previously mentioned in the abstract and motivation, the design of this ERC is different than that of ERC-137. ERC-137 has a strong tiering - the registrars update the ENS registry, which points to resolvers. In ERC-4834, every domain is effectively a registry, resolver, and registrar all in one. This is specifically designed to be a universal addressing system.

## Backwards Compatibility
There is no compatibility with ERC-137. While the two ERCs are somewhat similar, the rationale for each is different. An ERC-4834 contract that wraps the ERC-137 contract could be created, however, that would support .eth domains, so compatibility is possible.

## Reference Implementation

> Ownable (eip-173) domain: [eip-4834/OwnableDomain.sol]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Ownable (eip-173) domain: [./eip-4834/OwnableDomain.sol]
```
